# VMD_CCA_SWT
A conventional method for remiving muscle artifacts in EEG signals
Electroencephalography (EEG) is a convenient means of acquiring brain signals from the scalp surface area. Because of its non-invasiveness and low cost, EEG has a significant impact on the diagnosis of a variety of brain disorders, including epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease, and schizophrenia. The EEG signals are acquired using the International 10-20 system. There is a chance that artifacts will be added to the original signal during these recordings, and have an adverse impact on the EEG signal. Cardiac and ocular artifacts are easily identifiable, but EEG contamination due to muscle activity has yet to be adequately addressed. The problem is that in the high-frequency region, the spectral bandwidth of muscle activity and neural activity overlaps. Several approaches like regression, filtering, blind source separation, and wavelet methods are just a few of the ways that have been developed over the years to detect and eliminate muscle artifacts. Some of these methods probably require the use of prior information or a reference channel. In order to overcome these limitations, we proposed a hybrid method VMD-CCA-SWT for the removal of muscle artifacts. The Variational Mode Decomposition (VMD) method is applied to the EEG signal and decomposed into intrinsic mode functions (IMFs). These IMFs are further decomposed using Canonical Correlation Analysis (CCA) and the artifact components are removed. Further, to remove traces of artifacts, Stationary wavelet transform (SWT) is applied to the CCA reconstructed signal. The CCA output signal is divided into 3 level Approximation coefficients and detailed coefficients. The Garrotte thresholding is applied to detailed coefficients to eliminate the artifact components and the denoised signal is reconstructed using inverse SWT. 
